# Working Memory
On **Monday, December 5th, 2022**, I encountered a bug while attempting to update bash on VS Code for use with the project. The update involved installing a new version of Python (3.11), which caused issues with the project. Despite this setback, I was able to make progress on several tasks.

### ⭐ Tasks Accomplished

* Created DataLoader1 class for easily loading and processing multiple datasets with a consistent format
* Created create_venv.py script for creating new virtual environments through the command line interface (CLI)
* Created load_interleaved_datasets.py script for loading and interleaving datasets through CLI
* Located two new corpora: IARPA BABEL OP2 (a Swahili language corpus) and communicated with the author on Kencorpus

### 🏹 Work for December 6th, 2022

* Pass DatasetLoader class through chatgpt for code additions enabling interactions through CLI.
* Investigate error concerning the downloading of Common Voices 11 Swahili corpus using Huggingface dataset import
* Wrap normalization function into DatasetLoader class
* Complete DataLoader class and begin designing a training loop optimized for speed and low memory. Implement CLI interactivity in training loop script.
* Establish SSH connection to Lambda Cloud GPU and initiaite first training run on CommonVoice and Fluers interleaved datasets harnessing HuggingFace's datastream utility.
* Complete analysis of on-hand datasets contained in `resources.md`. Anlaysis needs to include total hours, number of speakers (by gender, age, etc. where available), and any other relevant features. The resources file must be ready by tomorrow for upload to GitHub repository at the end of that day's work.

### 🎯 Principles Learned

* In the future, I will be more careful when updating software to avoid similar issues. I will continue to work on the tasks listed above to move the project forward.
* Write both functions for getting_started.py notebook while simultaneously writing these functions in python scripts for use with CLI.
* Write daily summaries 